Hello and welcome back to your machine learning A to Z course.
Are you super excited because I am super excited about this tutorial we're talking about non-linear
Support Vector regression.
This is going to be quite an advanced tutorial.
But don't worry we will break it down and as per our mission will make the complex simple.
So before we start I just wanted to make sure we're on the same page.
So this is one of the most advanced materials in the Support Vector series of tutorials.
Please make sure that you've completed all the previous tutorials on SVR and SVM and kernels before
proceeding with this material because you'll need all that knowledge to be able to tackle this one.
All right.
And off we go.
Here it is.
So imagine you have a data set like this.
And you're trying to fit a support support vector regression onto this point you want to see what kind
of trend line is there or what kind of equation is behind this.
How do you model is what kind of model can we fit to this support vector regression model so that you
can predict what the next value is going to be for a new point that is added to the plots if you know
X or what is going to be Y.
Well you might want to try and fit as linear Support Vector regression and look something like this.
You'll have these support vectors but as you can see like intuitively you can tell it doesn't fit right
like you can tell that something is going on here beyond linear.
And like while this it might model may be OK there somewhere at some point clearly if you get a point
of X over here you're going to get the incorrect value or if X is over here you're going to get an incorrect
value does doesn't fit.
Looks like something else is going on.
You might try something like that then that won't fit as well.
That doesn't fit.
So it doesn't look like a linear model fits here and it looks like something more complex is going on.
So how do we build a support vector regression that will fit our data here.
Well this is where nonlinear SPRO comes in.
It's gonna be quite interesting because we need to go to a new dimension and that's what that's why
we're going to add this box is just for visualization purposes like our data hasn't changed our axes
are the same but just for us once we're transitioning to a third dimension to keep track of things we
can add this box and we're going to add these diagonals as well as a point a red circle in the middle
just so visually we can see what's going on.
It'll help us is just like a visual aid has nothing to do with the algorithm itself it's for illustrative
purposes.
So now we're going to actually take this and look at it from a different perspective at an angle.
So at an angle it looks like this.
And that will allow us to build that dimensions Z.
Now let's get rid of the previous view and we're going to make a copy of it because there's gonna be
quite a lot of things going on.
And in order to keep track of everything we'll have two charts are developing in parallel.
So now on the right what we're going to do is just as we did previously with supposed to support vector
machine and that's why it's important to have seen those tutorials.
We're going to add a kernel and in this case we're going to add a new function to take us into a third
dimension we're going to add a real basis function or the RPF.
So here we go.
That's what it looks like that's with the RPF.
You can see our data vaguely underneath but here you can see it more clearly.
And just as a reminder the formula for the RBA a function is over there.
Now if we project our data into onto this RBA you'll see how it works.
So first will the centre zero or this point 0 0 0 0 or X the y axis projects straight into the very
top.
Then if you we we discussed this before in the tutorials you put 0 0 0 l is the distance from the center
you'll get the very top you'll get a one.
Now let's see how these other points the other points in our observation will be projected onto the
view.
So we're going to start with this point over here.
So that point where we projected into this point in the z axis somewhere here.
By the way some of these things might not be absolutely horrible and accurate as I'm drawing them here
but they deliver hopefully they deliver the point home.
Okay.
So now this point we projected to over here somewhere next point there in this point this point and
then the following points A B almost a zero.
So all this blue stuff over here the bottom is very very close as there is there will be a very close.
So you can see we've been keeping track on on the left.
We've done all of these points over here.
Now the other points the remaining points these ones there actually we can't see them and not two in
order not to clutter things anything in this quadrant in this triangle here we're not going to plotted
because it's on the back it's on the opposite side of this radial base dysfunctional or this view.
And we just got appointed but just we can just imagine that they are also projecting onto this mountain
on the other side.
Now what happens next.
Well next we need to.
In these three dimensions we need to create run a linear model.
So now we're in three dimensions.
Now we can run a linear model in a linear model in three dimensions is not a line so in two dimensions
it's a straight line in a three them in three dimensions a linear model is a hyper plane.
So now if we run a linear model you'll see that it will.
How does it fit our data would fit our there is something like this.
And what do we want from here.
So once we fit the hyper plane to our data in these three dimensions what do we want from here.
We want to see where does it actually cross.
Where does it intersect.
Our RB off our radial base function so bases all the surface area C here including the floor.
This whole surface where does intersect will intersect over across this yellow line.
So that's the point of intersect or the line of intersect.
Now if we get rid of the plane we're left of this line and if we projected back down onto the two dimensions
the x and y look watch what happens so we're not gonna draw it on this plot.
We can draw on this plot.
So watch what happens.
There we go.
That's our two dimensional line.
So.
So that's how our intersect line projected on the two dimensional plot.
And that effectively is our model.
So if we now look at it in the perspective that we started with you'll see that that is what it looks
like.
That's the nonlinear SVR.
Now I know you probably have a few questions that's tried to dig into some of the comments or some of
the concepts behind this.
So first of all here we have this two dimensional plot here as our three dimensional three dimensions.
So why is this SVR right.
So where are the support vectors.
Well you know three them in three dimensional space the SVR would run very similarly to high runs in
a two dimensional space instead of having a sort of having like a Epsilon and says sort of tube we would
have an absolute and sensitive space between hyper planes.
So we did we would add these two new hyper planes.
One would be absolute above.
One would be Epsilon below.
Remember how we had for linear SVR we had just a tube.
But now here we have this space in between them.
And so basically what that means is any points that are in between these two X like the most outmost
hyper planes.
Any points in between them.
They won't be considered two wards like the Arab.
For those points will not be considered what we want to do is we want to minimize the error from this
Epsilon insensitive space to the remaining points that are outside and what this looks like.
Over here is that's our ballroom hyper plane.
That's its projection right.
Or that's a projection of the part where it intersects with our real base function.
And that's the top hyper plane and that's its intersection of the projection or its intersection.
So this line or here is projected into that one.
And basically anything in between was the absolute insensitive space now has become this Epsilon sensitive
tube and these are the support vectors.
The crucial point here is that this is the outcome originally this is these hyper planes are identified
or built from this view from the three dimensional view so that's where these points come in place so
this point is actually underneath we can't see it it's over there and there's also these two points
that are on the left.
So from here they're built.
And then this is just a projection just to put it into a perspective.
So that's why it's still a support vector regression because we have these points now.
Hopefully that explains why it's a support extra regression.
There's just one last thing I wanted to mention the final thing is that everything we've been talking
about here is for illustrative purposes.
In reality the way this works is very similar to the how the support vector machine works how what we
discussed about the kernel trick that in reality we don't have to go into a third dimension to all these
projections and then find our hyper planes find this Epsilon sensitive space and then predict everything
back and get this it would be too computationally expensive.
So what we actually discussed here is a more complex approach this would be like the full fledged approach
of going into the third dimension doing the hyper planes coming back getting our end result that would
be like the full Monty in a way but effectively what happens or in reality is that the colonel trick.
So just like with the support vector machine we don't have to go into third dimension.
Everything happens in the same space.
Simply by how we use the colonel.
Now we want to dive into more detail and that I'll let you think about that in your own time on how
the colonel trick would be used here.
Because simply it's a it's a easier concept than what we discussed by looking at the example the colonel
trick in SVM we can extrapolate how that would work or how that would benefit us here as well.
But in a nutshell this is what the nonlinear support vector regression is all about.
And the best part is of course the result that it allows us to model non-linear relationships like this
and get insights from our data.
I hope you enjoyed this tutorial.
This was quite an advanced concept so congratulations on making it to the end and I look forward to
seeing you on the future tutorials in the course.
And until then happy analyzing.